NEWS: TPP

Version 1.0.0:
  
  o First release of the TPP package for analyzing Thermal Proteome Profiling 
    experiments.

Version 1.1.0:
  o Changes in devel will be characterized by version number 1.1.x

Version 1.1.1:

  o bugfixes in config table import from .csv files: 
    1. can now handle different types of delimitors (";", "\t", ",")
    2. automatically removes empty rows after import

Version 1.1.2:
  o the recent update of the gridExtra package to Version 2.0.0 required a small fix to 
    ensure sucessful plotting of the melting curves and parameter tables, as well as correct
    display of QC 'bottleplots'.

Version 1.1.3:
  o fixed problem in QC-plot generation due to the gridExtra package update: 
    adapted height parameter in grid.arrange

Version 1.1.4:
  o Curve parameters "a" and "b" are now reported in the output of analyzeTPPTR and tpptrCurveFit.

Version 1.2.5:
  o CCR-part: 
      fold changes can now be normalized to their lowest temperature during 
      import by the function tppccrNormalizeToReference. 
      This ensures that the transformed values will always be between 0 and 1.
      When normalizing to the lowest concentration, and this value is 0, a small 
      constant (1e-15) is added to prevent division by zero.
  o CCR-import:
      Argument nonZeroCols can be NULL if no additional filtering is needed.
  o CCR output: 
      To make filtering easier, the 'passed_filter' column now shows 
      FALSE even if proteins could not be used for fitting (instead of NAs).
  o CCR output: 
      To make filtering easier, the 'passed_filter' column now shows 
      FALSE even if proteins could not be used for fitting (instead of NAs).
  o CCR output: 
      column with normalization results was renamed from 'normalized' 
      to 'median_normalized' to distinguish from the newly introduced normalization 
      to value at lowest concentration.
  o Excel export: 
      Columns are only color-coded by experiment, when the number of
      experiments is > 1.
  o Excel export: 
      Columns are only color-coded by experiment when the number of
      experiments is > 1.
  o Excel export:
      Relative paths to the plots work now for TR- and CCR part
  o Bug fix for data import: 
      Unique identifiers now treated correctly again.
  o Bug fix for Excel output: 
      Boolean column entries are only transformed to  "yes"/"no" for non-missing values.
  o Bugfix in TR-QC plots: 
      do not attempt to create Tm difference histograms if only one experiment is provided.
  o Bugfix in TR normalization: 
      fixedReference argument works again
  o Bugfix in TR-QC plots: 
      do not attempt to plot minSlope vs. Tm-diffs if no valid Tm-diff values are available.

Version 2.1.0:
  o Major update to the CCR-part: It is now possible to fit and plot multiple
    experiments simultaneously.
  o It is now possible to perform user-specified comparisons of different 
    experiments. They are specified in the 'comparison' column of the config 
    table.
  o TR-part: Hypothesis testing is now separated from result table creation. Therefore, 
    a new function was introduced (tpptrAnalyzeMeltCurves) -> see vignette.
  o CCR-part: Curve fitting and plotting are now conducted by separate functions -> see
    vignette.
  o Bug fixes
  o Introduced color coding of the columns belonging to different experiments in 
    the excel output. This requires openxlsx version >= 2.4.0.
  o The CCR workflow now only returns normalized measurements if normalization was 
    actually performed. Unmodified measurements are always returned and indicated 
    by the suffix 'unmodified'.
  o Data import from tab-delimited files now ignores quotes so that protein annotation 
    fields can contain single ' or " characters.
  o Now enabling arbitrary numbers of plot colors for melting curves or dose response 
    curves.

Version 2.1.1:
Updated package vignette.
  
2.1.2 (Nov-19-2015):
  o Bugfix in config table import:
      All non-alphanumeric characters in the Experiment column are now replaced 
      by'_'.
 o Bugfix in QC scatter plots:
      Can now handle cases where protein IDs do not overlap between experiments,
      or where the temperatures differ between experiments. The affected plots 
      are left empty and contain a message to explain the problem.
      
2.1.3 (Dec-17-2015):
 o Added column 'pEC50_quality_check' to CCR output to filter out pec50 values 
 not within concentration ranges.
 
2.1.4 (Dec-23-2015)
 o Removed example dataset containing fitted data from the Data folder in order 
   to reduce the overall package size (it was only used by some examples in the 
   function documentation). 
 o Minor changes to documentation in order to ensure that R CMD check and 
   BiocCheck run again without warnings.
   
2.1.5 (Jan-04-2015)
 o Now selectively importing functions from grid and gridExtra package to  
   prevent 'double import' warning due to recent changes in ggplot2.
   
2.1.6 (Jan-18-2016)
 o New CCR output column 'pEC50_quality_check' now reports pec50 values with
   the same sign as the 'pec50' column.
   

2.3.2 (Apr-16-2016)
Removed unit test that causes R CMD check to crash  since the latest update of package 'testthat'.

2.3.3 (Jun-02-2016)
Fixed bug in plotColors for the case when no comparisons are specified
   
2.99.0 (Oct-06-2016)
 o Major update: Extended package to analyze 2D-TPP experiments
 o Major update: Extended package to analyze TPP-TR experiments by 
   "non-parametric analysis of response curves" (NPARC), a non-parametrc 
    spline-based test for treatment effects.
 o Bugfix in 'tpptrCurveFit': restrict file names to 255 characters when creating
   melting curve plots in order to prevent file system crashes.
 o New packages dependencies: dplyr, margrittr
 o Bugfix in CCR workflow: avoid division by 0 when transforming foldchanges 
   before dose-response curve fitting.
   
2.99.1 (Oct-12-2016)
 o Remove the complex reference data object from the data folder. Will be re-
   introduced lalter in a leaner format.

2.99.2 (Oct-12-2016)
 o Reduce data by "xz" compression
   
2.99.3-5 (Oct-16-2016)
 o Adapt notation of function names and input arguments for consistency with 
   1D (TPP-TR and TPP-CCR) part.

3.0.0 (Oct-18-2016)
 o New Bioconductor release candidate!

3.1.0 (Oct-18-2016)
 o New version in Devel branch!

3.1.3 (Dec-07-2016)
 o Bugfix: ensure correct handling of drug concentrations when they are 
           imported in scientific notation (xx.xxE-x)

3.1.4 (Feb-05-2017)
 o Bugfix: Initialize variables by NULL to prevent "no visible binding for 
   global variable" NOTE by R CMD check in many functions
 o Prepare merging with Bioconductor DEVEL by making sure that functions won't crash after the update -> Synchronize interfaces, annotate deprecated argument, add unit tests
 o Re-introduce deprecated arguments (with warning) for consistency with Bioconductor RELEASE version.
 o Cosmetic changes to the vignettes
 o General code revision:
 - Deprecate functions and arguments, primarily in the newly introduced 2D part.

 o Bugfixes:
  - sort x and y values before DR curve fitting because the functions for initial parameter estimation are dependent on the correct ordering
  - fix typos in documentation
  - Improved memory efficiency for spline fitting
  - Fixed bug with the display of plot paths in the NPARC output.
  - Bugfix in Venn diagram creation: supress useless VD logfiles

3.2.0 (Feb-13-2017)
 o Re-introduce example data with column names from the standard pipeline
 o Tackle erros and warnings produced by R CMD check:
 - Revise unit tests
 - Revise executable examples of the exported functions
 - Revise documentation (=man files) of the exported functions
 - Make sure that internal function calls avoid deprecated arguments.
 o General code revision:
 - Thoroughly check each function manually and look for possible issues that were introduced accidentially during recent/ past updates
 - Put each function into a separate file to facilitate maintenance and testing
 - Make sure that internal functions are called by defining all arguments (caused mistakes in the past, for example when default columns names still referred to std pipeline convention). Avoid default values for internal functions.
 - Tidy up NAMESPACE
 - Finalize function deprecation.
 - Continue deprecation of individual function arguments in the 2D part.
 - Debug NPARC plotting: improve runtime and memory requirements
 o Improved memory efficiency for spline fitting
 o Fixed bug with the display of plot paths in the NPARC output.
 o Bugfixes when simultaneously starting spline fitting and melting curve fitting:
    - Plot paths in excel output are stored in separate columns for spline and melting curve fits
    - Combination of result tables no works without generating redundancies
 o Ensure that R CMD check and BiocCheck run again without errors or warnings.
 o Bugfix in p-value calculation. Filter requirements have been adjusted accordingly.
 
 o Enable the following features for 2D-TPP analysis:
  - Automatic creation of result path from 'Path' column in config table (was already present in TR- and CCR analysis)
  - Split rows with multiple identifiers (e.g. separated by '|') into separate rows  (was already present in TR- and CCR analysis)
  - Sort result table rows by temperature for each ID


3.2.1 (Feb-18-2017)
 o Revise examples and unit tests in order to fix issues found by R CMD check on Linux and Windows.

3.2.2 (Mar-12-2017)
 o Bugfixes in the functions responsible for filtering by user-specified QC columns (e.g. 'qssm')  for normalization set creation. It is now possible to leave the 'otherRequirements' slot in the normalization criteria empty.
 o Improved documentation of non-exported functions by ensuring that there is 
  at least a one-line comment explaining what the function does.
  
3.2.3 (Mar-??-2017)
 o Allow the data argument of the function tpptrSplineFitAndTest to be a list of expressionSets, like the one produced by the functions tpptrImport, tpptrNormalize and tpptrCurveFit.
 
